♪♪
[ GUNFIRE ]
Narrator: ON THIS EPISODE
OF "MYTHBUSTERS"...
WHOO-HOO!
...THE GUYS COME OUT SWINGING...
OH, BOY! DUH-DUH-DUH-DUH...
...WITH SOME DESPERATELY
DANGEROUS HIGH RISE HEROICS.
WE'RE TESTING THE HOLLYWOOD
MOVIE TROPE
THAT A GOOD GUY
WITH NOWHERE ELSE TO GO
BUT OFF THE ROOF OF A BUILDING
WILL TAKE A LEAP OF FAITH...
[ GRUNTS ] I'M GOOD!
...AND AS HE'S SWINGING BACK,
SHOOT THROUGH A WINDOW...
WHOO-HOO!
...AND LAND PERFECTLY SAFE
BACK INSIDE THE BUILDING.
A LITTLE BIT OF PRAYER
HALFWAY DOWN?
GOOD JOB!
Jon: AND IT WAS PROBABLY
THE COOLEST THING
I HAVE EVER DONE IN MY LIFE.
GO!
HYAH! YAH!
[ GUNSHOT ]
♪♪
Narrator:
THEN, IT'S THE CRYING GAME,
"MYTHBUSTERS" STYLE...
EVERYONE KNOWS THAT
CUTTING ONIONS MAKES YOU CRY.
[ IMITATES SOBBING ]
Narrator: ...AS VOLUNTEERS
TACKLE THREE MYTHICAL CURES...
NOT HELPING.
-OH!
-OH, NO!
Narrator: ...TO SEE IF IT'S
POSSIBLE TO CHOP UP...
OH, SHE'S ALREADY
DOWN TO ONE EYE.
[ LAUGHS ]
THAT IS A LOT OF BLINKING.
...WITHOUT TEARING UP.
IT'S OKAY, DON'T BE SAD.
SCIENCE IS FUN.
YOU GUYS ARE EVIL.
♪♪
-- Captions by VITAC --
www.vitac.com
CAPTIONS PAID FOR BY
DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS
Narrator: OUR FIRST MYTH
IS A SHATTERING STUNT
TAKEN RIGHT FROM
THE SILVER SCREEN.
[ GLASS SHATTERS ]
IT'S BEEN THE HIGH POINT
OF MANY AN ACTION MOVIE.
THE HERO IS TRAPPED
ON TOP OF A SKYSCRAPER
WITH NO OBVIOUS MEANS OF ESCAPE.
ATTACHING A ROPE,
HE LEAPS, SPINS,
AND SHOOTS OUT
A TEMPERED GLASS WINDOW
SEVERAL FLOORS BELOW,
BEFORE SWINGING SAFELY INSIDE.
IT'S A GREAT SET PIECE STUNT,
BUT WOULD IT BE FEASIBLE
AND SURVIVABLE IN REAL LIFE?
♪♪
THIS MYTH MIGHT BE POSSIBLE,
BUT IT'S GOT A LOT OF FACTORS
THAT HAVE TO GO JUST RIGHT.
-EXACTLY.
IT'S NOT JUST HOW
THE ACTION HERO ACTS,
IT'S HOW THE WINDOW REACTS.
AND FROM PAST EXPERIENCES
ON THIS SHOW,
WE KNOW THAT GLASS CAN HAVE
SOME SURPRISING PROPERTIES.
WHY, BRIAN, IS THAT A CUE
FOR A "MYTHBUSTERS" FLASHBACK?
YES, IT IS.
IT'S GONNA BE A HORROR SHOW.
Narrator: OVER THE YEARS,
WE'VE TESTED MANY
OF THE SURPRISING PROPERTIES
OF ORDINARY GLASS.
OHH!
FOR INSTANCE, IT CAN BE
SHATTERED BY A HUMAN VOICE.
[ HIGH-PITCHED TONE ]
[ CHEERING, WHOOPING ]
BUT IT'S ACTUALLY QUITE
RESISTANT TO A SONIC BOOM.
[ LOUD BLAST ]
IN "FALLING LAWYER,"
WE SET OUT TO SEE
IF A MAN REALLY
COULD HURL HIMSELF
OUT THROUGH A SKYSCRAPER WINDOW.
I WANT TO MAKE IT
THROUGH THE GLASS.
Narrator: THAT MYTH
WAS FATALLY CONFIRMED.
-THAT WAS SPECTACULAR!
-IT WORKED.
Narrator: BUT THIS TIME,
WE'RE CRASHING OUR HERO
IN THROUGH A WINDOW
TO SEE IF HE LIVES
TO TELL THE TALE.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO HAVE
MORE THAN ONE STORY, THOUGH.
NO ACTION MOVIE WITH THIS TROPE
HAS THEIR HERO SWINGING DOWN
JUST ONE FLOOR AND CRASHING
THROUGH THE WINDOW.
WE NEED SOME SERIOUS HEIGHT.
YOU KNOW, SPEAKING OF
SERIOUS HEIGHTS,
HOW ABOUT WE JUST FINISH
CLEANING THESE WINDOWS
AND GET TO TESTING?
ALL RIGHT.
♪♪
Narrator: THE GUYS' FIRST TASK
IS TO DETERMINE JUST
HOW MUCH ROPE
TO GIVE OUR ACTION HERO.
AND THEY'VE SOURCED
A SUITABLY LOFTY LOCATION.
Brian: TODAY, JON AND I
ARE HERE AT DEL VALLE.
IT'S LOS ANGELES COUNTY'S
LARGEST FIRE AND DISASTER
TRAINING FACILITY,
AND THAT TOWER BEHIND ME
IS PART OF IT.
BUT FOR OUR PURPOSES, IT'S GOING
TO BE OUR SKYSCRAPER.
♪♪
WHAT WE'RE TESTING HERE
IS THE PART OF THE MOVIE TROPE
WHERE OUR ACTION HERO
JUMPS OFF THE ROOF
AND IS ABLE TO SWING SMOOTHLY
BACK TOWARDS THE BUILDING,
A, WITHOUT GETTING
SEVERELY INJURED.
AND B, WITHOUT GETTING
SEVERELY DEAD.
OKAY, HERE WE GO.
Narrator: THERE'S REALLY ONLY
ONE MAN FOR THE JOB,
AND IT'S NOT JON OR BRIAN.
Jon: YOU KNOW, I HOPE BUSTER'S
APPRECIATING ALL THIS LOVE
AND ATTENTION WE GIVE HIM.
[ CHUCKLES ]
Narrator:
IT'S A LONG HAUL TO THE TOP
WITH OUR RELUCTANT HERO.
Brian: I FEEL LIKE I COULD
BE HELPING YOU.
NAH, THAT'S OKAY.
I'M WORKING ON
MY WRESTLING MOVES.
Narrator: THEY START OFF WITH
ENOUGH ROPE FOR A 6-STORY FALL,
AIMING TO SEE HOW BUSTER HANDLES
THE STRESSES
OF SUDDEN DECELERATION.
ONE!
Brian: WHETHER IT'S HORIZONTALLY
OR VERTICALLY,
THAT SUDDEN TENSION CAN EXERT
A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF FORCE.
TO WATCH FOR THAT, WE'RE GOING
TO PLACE SHOCK WATCHES ON BUSTER
TO DETERMINE
JUST HOW MUCH FORCE
IS EXERTED ON HIM
AT THE END OF HIS ROPE.
Jon: GENTLY APPLY THE 25G
SHOCK WATCH.
Narrator: THE THREE DIFFERENTLY
RATED SHOCK WATCHES
SHOULD GIVE A GOOD INDICATION
OF ANY INTERNAL DAMAGE.
OKAY, BUSTER, YOU'RE ALL SET.
[ SIREN WAILING ]
Brian: ALL PEOPLE, ALL PEOPLE,
CLEAR OF THE TOWER.
WE'RE GOING TO BE
DROPPING BUSTER OFF.
Narrator: TO MATCH THE MOMENTUM
OF A RUNNING JUMP,
THEY'RE GIVING BUSTER
THE BUM'S RUSH.
BUSTER, SIX-STORY ROOF DIVE.
THREE...
TWO...
ONE!
YIPPEE-KI-YAY!
[ BRIAN SHOUTS ]
♪♪
OH! OH!
[ LAUGHING ]
THAT DIDN'T LOOK ALL THAT FUN.
YIPPEE-KI-YAY!
Narrator: A QUICK INSPECTION
SHOWS ALL OF
THE SHOCK WATCHES TRIPPED.
YUP, THAT ONE'S GONE OFF.
AND THAT ONE.
Narrator: THAT'S NO SURPRISE.
AT A SPEED OF AROUND
40 MILES PER HOUR,
BUSTER'S SUDDEN STOP
PROBABLY WAS A BONE BREAKER.
THEN AGAIN...
THAT WAS AN INCREDIBLY
ROUGH LANDING.
BUSTER WENT OVER AND JUST HIT,
BOUNCED ALL OVER.
IT WAS SO MUCH WORSE
THAN I THOUGHT.
[ LOUD THUD ]
Narrator: THE DAMAGE
MAY HAVE BEEN DUE
TO DECELERATION
OR HITTING THE TOWER.
EITHER WAY...
AFTER WATCHING BUSTER'S
SIX-STORY FALL,
I WOULD SAY THAT
THERE'S NO WAY
THAT COUNTS AS A CONTROLLED
SWING BACK TOWARDS THE BUILDING.
COME ON, BUSTER.
HANG IN THERE, MAN.
Narrator: FOR BUSTER
AND THE MYTH TO REMAIN INTACT,
THIS TEST NEEDS
SOME SERIOUS FINE TUNING.
-OH! OH!
-OOH!
Narrator: AND ON THAT NOTE,
IT'S TIME TO SWING INTO
TALE NUMBER TWO.
♪♪
IT'S A KITCHEN SINK SOB STORY
IN DIRE NEED OF A HAPPY ENDING.
TO TEST THE MYTH THAT IT'S
IMPOSSIBLE TO CUT AN ONION
WITHOUT WEEPING, WE'LL PUT
THREE OF THE MOST COMMON
SO-CALLED CURES ON TRIAL.
BUT FIRST, WHY EXACTLY
DO ONIONS MAKE YOU CRY?
[ WHIMSICAL THEME PLAYING ]
-"ONIONS AND YOU,"
STARING
CHIVE WELLINGTON AS BRIAN.
REGINALD VAN SHALLOT AS JON.
AND INTRODUCING LASSIE AS BO.
♪♪
SAY, JON,
WHAT SMELLS SO SWELL?
ONIONS, BRIAN.
WHY, I'M MAKING
AN ONION SANDWICH.
[ LAUGHTER ]
Narrator:
DON'T YOU HAVE THE FEELING
THAT JON IS HIDING A SECRET?
IS SOMETHING WRONG?
IT'S THESE ONIONS, THEY --
[ LAUGHTER ]
THEY MAKE ME WANT TO CRY.
Audience: AW!
Narrator: WHAT JON DOESN'T
REALIZE IS THAT CUTTING ONIONS
DON'T MAKE YOU SAD AT ALL.
WHEN ONIONS ARE CUT,
DAMAGED ONION CELLS
RELEASE MOLECULES
CONTAINING SULFUR COMPOUNDS.
THESE COMPOUNDS CREATE
A VOLATILE GAS
THAT'S A STRONG IRRITANT
TO THE EYE.
TEARS ARE THEN PRODUCED TO
ATTEMPT TO DILUTE THE IRRITANT.
NO SAD TEARS HERE,
ONLY PROTECTIVE TEARS.
SO TURN THAT FROWN UPSIDE DOWN,
ONION CHOPPERS,
AND HAVE YOURSELF A DANDY MEAL.
HEY, JON, CAN YOU MAKE ME
AN ONION SANDWICH, TOO?
[ LAUGHTER ]
NOW, THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT MAKES ME HAPPY.
[ BOTH LAUGHING ]
AH, ONIONS.
[ AUDIENCE APPLAUDING ]
[ LAUGHING CONTINUES ]
♪♪
THERE ARE PROBABLY HUNDREDS OF
WAYS PEOPLE HAVE COME UP WITH
TO PREVENT AN ONION FROM
CAUSING TEARS WHILE YOU CUT IT.
BUT WE'RE GOING TO CHOOSE
THE THREE MOST WELL REGARDED
AND COMMON.
CUTTING AN ONION AND THEN
SPRAYING LEMON JUICE ON IT,
CUTTING THE ONION
AFTER YOU FREEZE IT,
AND THEN CUTTING AN ONION
WHILE CHEWING GUM.
♪♪
Narrator: GETTING STARTED MEANS
FINDING OUT WHICH KIND OF ONION
STINGS THE MOST.
THAT COULD BE YOUR WHITES,
YOUR REDS, OR EVEN A YELLOW.
TO FOCUS THE FUMES,
JON'S BUILT A HIGHLY UNUSUAL
REVERSE GAS MASK.
THERE'S A FAN INSIDE THE HOOD,
SO THAT WHEN I TURN IT ON
AND I CHOP ONIONS,
IT WILL PUMP ALL THAT GAS
RIGHT INTO MY FACE AREA,
AND THEN WE'LL SEE
HOW MUCH I CRY.
[ IMITATES SOBBING ]
SHOULD BE FUN.
Narrator: BOTH JON AND BRIAN
WILL DON THE HELMET THREE TIMES
FOR 3 MINUTES PER ONION...
GOT TO SET THE MOOD.
...AND THEN RATE THEIR DISTRESS
FROM ZERO TO FIVE.
-ARE YOU READY, JON?
-LAY IT ON ME, MAN.
ALL RIGHT. HERE WE GO.
JON'S THE FIRST
TO FEEL THE BURN.
[ PUMPING ]
AND IT'S NOT LONG BEFORE
HE'S WEEPING TEARS OF JOY.
MY EYES ARE BURNING!
[ BOTH LAUGH ]
I'VE NEVER BEEN THIS HAPPY
TO FEEL PAIN BEFORE.
[ BOTH LAUGH ]
I MEAN, NOT IN THE SENSE
THAT IT BURNS,
BUT IN THE SENSE
THAT THE RIG WORKS.
Narrator: JON SURVIVES
HIS 3-MINUTE ROUND.
WHOO-HOO-HOO-HOO!
NOW IT'S BRIAN'S TURN
TO SUFFER FOR SCIENCE.
-ARE YOU READY?
-NO.
PERFECT. HERE WE GO.
[ LAUGHING ]
LET THE PERFUME
FILL THE HELMET.
OH, THERE WE GO.
MMM.
YEAH.
Narrator:
THE SELF-IMPOSED TORTURE
CONTINUES FOR 20 LONG MINUTES.
NOW MY BEARD'S
STUCK IN THE FAN.
OH, GOOD! HA HA.
OH, MAN, I CAN BARELY KEEP
MY EYES OPEN ON THIS ONE.
[ PUMPING ]
YEAH, KEEP GOING.
THERE'S SOMETHING
CREEPING UP ON ME.
HOW BAD IS IT?
I CAN'T SEE MYSELF.
Narrator: NOW IT'S TIME
TO COMPARE NOTES
AND PICK THE MOST
VOLATILE VEGETABLE.
-THAT'S A LOT OF CRYING, MAN.
-THAT'S A LOT OF CRYING.
Narrator: JON SCORED IT HIGHER
THAN BRIAN EVERY TIME.
BUT THEY'RE BOTH IN AGREEMENT.
RED ONIONS RULE.
THIS ONE, AS MUCH AS ANY
OF THEM, BROUGHT THE PAIN.
SO IT LOOKS LIKE
WE HAVE A CONSENSUS.
-RED.
-YEAH, IT LOOKS LIKE RED ONIONS
WERE THE MOST EYE
BURNINGEST BURNY-EYE
BURNING ONION
FOR THE BOTH OF US.
Narrator: THE NEXT STEP IS
AS CLEAR AS CAN BE.
STOP.
THERE WE GO.
CORNER THE MARKET
ON CALIFORNIA RED ONIONS...
COOL!
AND FIND SOMEONE ELSE
TO IRRITATE.
WE GIVE YOU...
ONIONS!
♪♪
Narrator: SO FAR, IN THE "SWING
THROUGH THE WINDOW" MYTH...
YIPPEE-KI-YAY!
[ BRIAN SHOUTS ]
...THE GUYS HAVE FOUND
THAT A SIX-STORY LEAP
IS MORE THAN EVEN
AN ACTION MAN CAN HANDLE.
THAT DIDN'T LOOK ALL THAT FUN.
SO LET'S SWITCH SIX STORIES
TO FOUR STORIES
AND GIVE IT ANOTHER GO.
Narrator: WITH A 33 PERCENT
SHORTER ROPE,
BUNGEE BUSTER IS ALL SET
FOR A SECOND PLUNGE.
[ GRUNTING ]
BUSTER JUMPING OFF A BUILDING,
FOUR-STORY ROPE IN THREE...
-Both: ...TWO...
-...ONE. WHOO!
[ SNAP, THUD ]
-OH!
OOH!
HIS FOOT GOT CAUGHT IN THAT LINE
WHEN HE WAS OUT THERE.
LET'S GO CHECK
THE SHOCK WATCHES.
WHOO!
Narrator: IT WASN'T
THE SMOOTHEST OF ARCS.
OHH!
OOH!
AND AGAIN, THE DATA
CONFIRMS THEIR MISGIVINGS.
POST MATCH ANALYSIS,
HIS 25 ONE DEFINITELY WENT OFF,
BUT THE 37 AND THE 50 DID NOT.
25 Gs IS A SIGNIFICANT
AMOUNT OF WHIPLASH
AND PROBABLY SOME BRAIN DAMAGE.
WHOO!
OHH!
OOH!
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE EXACT
OPPOSITE IS OF A GRACEFUL
HOLLYWOOD SWAN DIVE OFF A ROOF
FOLLOWED BY A SWING BACK TOWARDS
THE BUILDING LOOKS LIKE,
BUT THAT MAY HAVE BEEN IT.
COME ON, BUSTER.
HANG IN THERE, MAN.
SO, WE'RE GOING TO SHORTEN
THE LENGTH OF THAT ROPE
AND GIVE IT ANOTHER GO.
Narrator: BUT NOT TOO SHORT.
TO MATCH THE MYTH,
THE FALL SHOULD BE
AT LEAST TWO STORIES.
THREE...
IF OUR HERO TAKES
ANOTHER BEATING...
...ONE!
...THIS MYTH IS DONE
AND BUSTED.
GERONIMO!
♪♪
THAT ACTUALLY DIDN'T
LOOK TOO BAD.
GERONIMO!
WE THREW HIM, AND HE SWUNG
TOWARDS THE BUILDING.
THERE'S NO LIKE,
"K-CHUA, DOOF!"
IT'S GETTING BETTER
AND BETTER WITH THAT
BALANCING THE OUT DISTANCE
AND THE DOWN DISTANCE.
[ THUD ]
SHOCK WATCHES ON
THE HEAD ARE FINE.
YEAH, AND THE CHEST ONES
ARE GOOD TOO.
EH. NO INJURY THERE.
I'D SAY HE'D HAVE
A GREAT CHANCE
OF SWINGING
AND STILL SHOOTING.
Narrator: IT'S A ROUGH RIDE,
BUT DEFINITELY DOABLE.
GERONIMO!
AND WITH BUSTER STILL
THANKFULLY IN ONE PIECE...
[ THUD ]
...IT'S BACK TO THE WORKSHOP.
♪♪
Jon: NOW FOR PHASE TWO,
WE'RE GOING TO SEE
IF IT'S FEASIBLE TO SHOOT OUT
AND CRASH THROUGH
A QUARTER-INCH-THICK PANE
OF REAL SKYSCRAPER GLASS.
OVER THERE, ON THAT SIDE,
BEHIND BRIAN.
Brian: SO NOW, WE'RE GOING
TO SET UP THE GLASS
IN THE FRAME,
ANCHOR IT DOWN...
HOLD.
THAT'S PERFECT.
...SEND BUSTER THROUGH IT
RIGHT AS JON RELEASES
THREE BULLETS INTO IT.
AND I EXPECT THAT THAT GLASS
FALLS OUT OF THE WAY,
AND BUSTER MAKES IT THROUGH,
NO PROBLEM.
Narrator: IT'S A SIMPLE SETUP.
Jon: GUN'S HOT.
AS BUSTER'S RELEASED, JON AIMS
TO SHOOT OUT THE GLASS
WITH A NINE MILLIMETER.
I AM SET.
THIS IS LIVE FIRE,
SO, EVERYONE,
EYES AND EARS, PLEASE.
Narrator:
BUT WILL IT SHATTER ENOUGH
FOR BUSTER TO FLY THROUGH
UNHARMED?
LET'S FIND OUT.
BUSTER THROUGH THE GLASS
WITH THREE ROUNDS, IN THREE...
TWO, ONE.
[ GUNSHOTS ]
WHOO-HOO!
THAT WAS FANTASTIC.
[ GUNSHOTS ]
Jon: WELL,
FROM WHAT I COULD SEE,
THE FIRST SHOT GOES THROUGH,
A LITTLE BIT OF GLASS FALLS OUT.
THE SECOND SHOT GOES THROUGH,
MORE GLASS FALLS OUT,
AND AS THE THIRD SHOT'S
GOING THROUGH,
BUSTER GOES "BAH!"
AND HE SMASHES THROUGH IT.
MAN, THIS WAS GREAT.
NICE, MAN.
[ BLOWS AIR ]
[ GUNSHOTS ]
-OOH! THERE'S YOUR FIRST SHOT.
-ONE.
I THINK THAT FIRST BULLET
REALLY COMPROMISED
THE WHOLE STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY.
I DON'T THINK WE NEED
THAT MANY BULLETS.
[ GUNSHOTS ]
Narrator: ACHIEVING
A ONE-SHOT SHATTER
ISN'T CRUCIAL TO THE MYTH,
BUT IT'S TEMPTING
TO SEE IF IT WORKS.
[ CLICKING ]
SINGLE BULLET WITH BUSTER TEST.
YIPPEE-KI-YAY IN THREE!
TWO! ONE!
[ GUNSHOT ]
[ LAUGHS ] OH...
[ LAUGHING ]
[ GUNSHOT ]
I THINK THERE COULD HAVE BEEN
A PAUSE BETWEEN THE PULL
AND THE SHOOT.
YEAH, THIS GLASS SEEMS LIKE IT
JUST COMPLETELY FELL AWAY
BEFORE BUSTER HAD
A CHANCE TO MAKE IT.
[ GUNSHOT ]
Narrator: YUP, THE GLASS
SHATTERS JUST FINE
AFTER ONE SHOT.
[ GUNSHOT ]
BUT THIS LITTLE SIDELINE
EXPERIMENT HIGHLIGHTS
THE NEED
FOR SPLIT-SECOND TIMING.
[ GUNSHOT ]
Jon: IT'S LIKE THE LAST BIT
OF GLASS FALLS
AND BUSTER GOES, WHOO!
THIS IS JUST A TIMING ISSUE.
Narrator: BUT IF THE TIMING'S
TOO LATE, OUR STUNT HERO,
AND THAT WILL BE ONE OF THESE
TWO, COULD BE CUT TO RIBBONS.
AS A TIMELY REMINDER
OF HOW UGLY THAT WOULD BE,
HERE'S BUSTER ONCE MORE
WITH NO BULLETS
AND NO PRE-SHATTER.
CANNONBALL IN THREE...
TWO...ONE!
WHOO!
OH! OH, THAT LOOKED
LIKE THAT HURT.
IT SOUNDED LIKE IT HURT, TOO.
IT WAS JUST LIKE...
[ GRUNTING ]
♪♪
YEAH, THAT IS NOT
A SOFT LANDING.
I THINK YOU SAID IT.
THIS WAS LIKE A CAR CRASH.
SO BULLET THROUGH A GLASS
BEFORE SOMEONE GOES THROUGH IT.
DEFINITELY.
♪♪
Narrator:
JON AND BRIAN ARE TESTING
THREE POPULAR CURES
FOR ONION TEARS.
THAT ONE'S PRETTY POTENT.
YOUR EYES ARE A LITTLE RED,
AND THEY'RE
GLISTENING LIKE A PRINCESS.
I ALWAYS WANTED TO BE A PRETTY,
PRETTY PRINCESS.
TO MAINTAIN CONSISTENCY THROUGH
THE UPCOMING TRIAL BY ONION...
-SO...
-HOW'S THAT?
OH, YEAH.
...THE BOYS ARE CONSTRUCTING
A ONE-OFF CONTRAPTION
TO FUNNEL THE FUMES.
Jon: ESSENTIALLY, WHAT WE'RE
BUILDING IS A COUPLE BOXES
LINKED TOGETHER
WITH A PIECE OF DUCTING
AND AN EXTRACTOR FAN.
STAY.
NOW, WHILE BRIAN BUILDS THE BOX
WHICH YOU STICK YOUR HEAD INTO,
I'LL BE PUTTING
THE FINISHING TOUCHES
ON THE ONION CHOPPING BOX,
WHICH, FOR THE MOST PART,
IS AIRTIGHT.
Brian: SO WHY DO WE NEED
AN ONION-MULCHING MACHINE
TO DO THIS TEST?
WELL, WE NEED TO CONTROL
A COUPLE OF VARIABLES.
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE
THAT OUR VIC --
VOLUNTEERS ARE GIVEN
THE SAME AMOUNT OF ONION
AND THE SAME AMOUNT
OF CURE EACH TIME.
ONION!
[ LAUGHS ]
[ IMITATES CHOPPING ]
IT WILL HOLD UP, I THINK.
I LIKE IT, MAN.
Narrator: THE APPARATUS
IS DULY CHRISTENED...
ALL RIGHT.
...AND THEN GIVEN A TEST RUN.
THERE'S A LITTLE TEAR!
[ LAUGHS ]
THERE'S ANOTHER ONE COMING.
THIS EYE'S GOT ONE, TOO.
I'VE NEVER SEEN HIM
TEAR BEFORE.
OH, MAN!
OUR RIG IS WORKING PERFECTLY.
WE GOT ONIONS. WE GOT FUMES.
THE ONLY THING MISSING NOW
IS THE VOLUNTEERS.
Narrator: VOLUNTEERS WHO HAVE
NO IDEA WHAT THEY SIGNED UP FOR.
♪♪
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,
THANK YOU FOR COMING TODAY.
HERE AT "MYTHBUSTERS," WE ARE
CONTINUALLY ON THE CUTTING EDGE
OF SCIENTIFIC BREAKTHROUGHS.
WITH YOUR HELP,
WE'RE GOING TO BE TESTING
WHETHER OR NOT THERE'S
AN EFFECTIVE DEFENSE
AGAINST THE PAINFUL
EFFECTS OF...
[ INHALES ] ONIONS!
♪♪
SO PREPARE YOUR HEARTS,
MINDS, AND EYEBALLS,
BECAUSE IT'S TIME --
IT'S TIME TO SUIT UP.
[ LAUGHTER ]
Narrator: IT'S ALSO TIME TO
ESTABLISH THE GROUND RULES.
HOW LONG DO OUR VOLUNTEERS
HAVE TO SUFFER THEIR TORTURE?
WELL, 3 MINUTES,
BECAUSE THAT'S ABOUT
HOW LONG A REASONABLE PERSON
WOULD BE CUTTING UP ONIONS
IN THEIR KITCHEN.
[ LAUGHS ] PLEASE TAKE A SEAT
RIGHT ON THIS STOOL.
AND I'M GOING TO GENTLY
LOWER THIS BOX OVER YOUR HEAD.
Brian: AFTER EACH TEST, WE'RE
GOING TO ASK OUR VOLUNTEERS
TO SCORE THEIR EXPERIENCE.
THEY'RE GOING TO RANK IT BETWEEN
ZERO AND 5, WITH ZERO BEING
"I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW
THERE WAS ONIONS AROUND,"
AND 5 BEING, "AAH! WHY?"
♪♪
Narrator: FIRST UP
IS A CONTROL TEST
WITH NO RELIEF WHATSOEVER.
AH!
OH, YOU'RE GETTING IT?
OH, THERE HE GOES.
LOOK, HE'S TURNING A LITTLE RED.
Narrator:
THIS GIVES EACH CONTESTANT
A BASELINE PAIN SCORE.
IT'S LIKE YOU WANT TO TOUCH
YOUR EYES SO BAD,
BUT YOU CAN'T.
[ JON LAUGHS ]
IT'S OKAY TO CRY.
IT'S MY PARTY,
I CAN CRY IF I WANT TO.
♪♪
Narrator: THE PATTERN OF
LAUGHTER AND TEARS PERSISTS.
ARE THERE TEARS YET?
OH, I THINK
THERE MIGHT BE TEARS.
THEY'RE GETTING --
IT'S OKAY, DON'T BE SAD.
SCIENCE IS FUN.
THAT UP?
HE'S LAUGHING
AT OUR ONIONS, JON.
HOW ARE YOU HOLDING UP?
JUST KEEP GOING.
[ BRIAN LAUGHING ]
OKAY, JUST KEEP GOING.
ROGER THAT.
♪♪
IT'S PRETTY BAD. [ LAUGHS ]
-Both: PRETTY BAD.
-THAT'S GOOD.
REMEMBER THE FEELING.
YOU'LL NEED TO WRITE IT DOWN.
ONION MULCHING MACHINE.
Narrator: THEY ALL HANG ON
FOR THE FULL 3 MINUTES.
[ GROANS ]
FIVE...FOUR...
THREE...TWO...
ONE. FRESH AIR.
Jon: WOW!
ALL RIGHT, JON. SCORES FROM
THE BASELINE TEST ARE IN.
PERFECT. I MEAN, I SAW A LOT OF
PINK EYES AND A LOT OF TEARS,
SO I'M EXPECTING
SOME PRETTY HIGH NUMBERS.
Narrator: REMEMBER, 5 IS
MAXIMUM DISCOMFORT,
AND ZERO IS NONE AT ALL.
-5.
-OKAY.
-3.
-SURPRISINGLY. TOUGH COOKIE.
-5.
-RIGHT.
4. 5. 4.
-THAT'S NOT BAD.
-THAT'S ABOUT WHAT YOU EXPECT.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S SEE IF THE NUMBERS
GET ANY LOWER
ON THE REMEDY TESTS.
♪♪
Narrator: SEEMS LIKE A GOOD TIME
TO REFLECT ON
THE WORDS OF WILL ROGERS --
"AN ONION CAN MAKE PEOPLE CRY...
OH, YEAH.
"BUT THERE'S NEVER BEEN
A VEGETABLE
THAT COULD MAKE YOU LAUGH."
YOU GUYS ARE EVIL.
♪♪
Narrator: SO FAR, THE MYTH
OF THE SKYSCRAPER SWING
IS HOLDING UP.
GERONIMO!
SEEMS LIKE THEY COULD PULL OFF
A TWO-STORY ROPE JUMP.
Jon: THAT ACTUALLY DIDN'T
LOOK TOO BAD.
AND SHOOTING OUT A WINDOW WORKS
FINE IF THE TIMING IS RIGHT.
HE WAS STILL SWINGING
AND HIT
SOME OF THE GLASS
THAT WAS FALLING OUT,
SO IT'S STILL FALLING
AS HE SMASHED THROUGH IT.
BUT TO PROPERLY TEST
THIS MOVIE TROPE IN REAL LIFE,
THEY'LL NEED A LIVE ACTION
HERO FROM HERE ON IN.
-I GOT HER.
-[ LAUGHS ]
Jon: THAT'S WHY BRIAN AND I
ARE ABOUT TO HAVE
A LONG JUMP COMPETITION
TO SEE WHICH ONE OF US
CAN JUMP THE FURTHEST
TO GIVE THIS MYTH
THE BEST CHANCE.
Brian:
IT MAY SEEM REALLY STRANGE,
BUT JON AND I BOTH REALLY
WANT TO DO THIS JUMP.
IT'S A ONCE-IN-A-LIFETIME
OPPORTUNITY
EVEN WITH ALL THE RISKS.
HE'S WORKING OUT PRETTY HARD,
BUT I GOT THE LEG LENGTH.
I THINK I GOT THIS ONE.
Narrator:
BRIMMING WITH SELF BELIEF...
HEY!
...BRIAN SETS
AN UNDERWHELMING BENCHMARK.
I'M GOING TO GIVE YOU YOUR
FURTHER FOOT WHERE THE HEEL IS.
HERE WE GO.
I'M GOING TO RUN IN THREE,
TWO, ONE.
-[ GRUNTS ]
-OH HO HO HO! VERY NICE.
OH, MAN, I FORGOT TO ROLL.
OH, HEY.
Jon: AND THE RESULTS OF OUR
LONG JUMP COMPETITION ARE...
BRIAN WITH 81 INCHES,
AND JON, THAT'S ME,
WITH 133 INCHES.
NOW, THE THEORY
WITH THE LONG JUMP IS,
THE FURTHER OUT HORIZONTALLY
I GO,
THE SMOOTHER THE SWING
OF MY ARC WILL BE,
AND THE SLOWER MY
DOWNWARD ACCELERATION WILL BE.
SO -- HYAH! -- LESS JARRING.
WELL THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
BANKING ON, ANYWAY.
♪♪
Narrator: SO THEY'VE GOT
THEIR JUMPER,
AND UP ON THE ROOF IS A MAN
WHO CAN GIVE HIM
THE RIGHT KIND OF PUSH.
WHEN WE TELL YOU THAT
WE'RE PROFESSIONALS
AND NOT TO TRY THIS AT HOME,
THE PROFESSIONALS
ARE USUALLY JON AND I.
BUT IN THIS CASE, WE'VE BROUGHT
IN HOLLYWOOD STUNT COORDINATOR
KYLE WEISHAAR
AND ALL HIS EQUIPMENT.
THE REASON IS, JON'S LIFE
IS AT RISK WITH THIS JUMP.
SO WE HAVE KYLE HERE
TO BE OUR EXPERT
AND MAKE SURE
EVERYTHING GOES SMOOTH.
Narrator: FIRST UP, KYLE'S
TESTING JON'S HEAD FOR HEIGHTS
WITH A CRASH COURSE
IN BASIC RAPPELLING.
HOLD THAT LINE LIKE YOU WERE...
RIGHT.
...AND HANG IN YOUR HARNESS.
I THINK I WAS AFRAID OF
EVERYTHING WHEN I WAS YOUNGER.
NOW YOU'RE A REAL MAN?
NO.
[ BOTH LAUGH ]
BUT YOU PLAY ONE ON TV.
THAT'S RIGHT!
LET'S DO IT.
I LIKE THAT. OKAY.
SO GO AHEAD AND LET
SOME LINE OUT.
OKAY.
Narrator: IT'S RIGHT ABOUT NOW
THAT BRIAN MIGHT BE GRATEFUL
HE LOST THE LONG JUMP.
THE MAIN THING HERE IS JON'S
GOING TO GET THAT EXPERIENCE
HE NEEDS TO RUN UP
AND ACTUALLY JUMP OFF
THE LEDGE OF A BUILDING.
THAT'S KIND OF DIFFICULT.
GIVE A NICE BIG PUSH OUT,
TRY AND GET MAYBE
LIKE 10 FEET DOWN,
AND GIVE HER A STOP.
BYE. [ GRUNTS ]
OH, I DON'T THINK
THAT WAS 10 FEET.
-THAT WAS LIKE 5.
-OH, LAME. ALL RIGHT.
GOING TO HAVE
TO DO THAT AGAIN.
Narrator: WHICH APPARENTLY
WON'T BE A PROBLEM.
JON'S GETTING THE HANG OF THIS.
WHOO!
-IS THAT 10 FEET?
-THERE YOU GO.
THAT'S 10 FEET.
JON'S HAVING THE TIME
OF HIS LIFE HERE.
I DON'T BLAME HIM.
[ LAUGHS ]
SO NOW THAT YOU'VE GOTTEN
SOME CONFIDENCE UP
WITH THE BASIC RAPPEL,
WE'VE NOW SWITCHED YOU OVER TO
A VERSION OF OUR BELAY SYSTEM.
Narrator: WHICH MEANS THINGS
WILL GET A LOT MORE PHYSICAL.
THIS IS EXCITING.
Narrator: JON WILL NOW HAVE
TO RUN OFF THE ROOF
AND TWIST IN MIDAIR.
WHAT I WOULD RECOMMEND
IS THAT YOU KEEP
LEFT HAND ON THE LINE.
COPY.
RIGHT HAND ON YOUR GUN.
YEAH.
YOU DON'T WANT TO BE LOOKING
FOR THAT THING MIDAIR.
Narrator: IF JON CAN PULL IT
ALL TOGETHER...
ALL RIGHT, RYAN. YOU SET?
...HE SHOULD HAVE THE HANG TIME
TO SQUEEZE OFF A SHOT OR THREE.
AND THREE...
TWO...ONE...GO!
OH, BOY!
[ IMITATES GUNFIRE ]
-JON.
-YEAH?
THAT WAS A GREAT SPIN!
I THINK I GOT ALL THE BAD GUYS.
Narrator: NOT TOO BAD
FOR A DRY RUN.
GO!
BUT THERE'S PLENTY OF TWISTS
AND TURNS STILL TO COME.
[ GRUNTS ]
IT'S TIME TO GIVE YOU A GUN.
HA HA HA! YEAH!
♪♪
Narrator: SO FAR, SIX VOLUNTEERS
HAVE EACH SPENT
3 MISERABLE MINUTES
IN THE ONION CHAMBER OF DOOM...
I CAN DO THIS.
...TO ESTABLISH
A BASELINE RESPONSE.
Brian: WHAT WE'RE LOOKING FOR
IN OUR TESTING OF THIS MYTH
IS NO IRRITATION OF THE EYES.
THAT'S NO PAIN, SWELLING,
TEARING, NO NOTHING.
Narrator:
AND THE FIRST OLD WIVES' TALE
THEY'RE TESTING...
CHEWING GUM.
THE IDEA IS THAT,
WHEN YOU CHEW GUM,
IT FORCES YOU TO BREATHE...
[ INHALES ] THROUGH YOUR MOUTH,
WHICH CAUSES LESS IRRITATION
TO THE LACRIMAL GLANDS
WHICH ARE RESPONSIBLE
FOR CREATING TEARS.
LESS IRRITATION, LESS TEARS.
HA HA. WELCOME BACK.
[ LAUGHS ]
HEY THERE, GUYS.
READY FOR ANOTHER RODEO?
WAIT.
WE'RE GOING TO OFFER YOU
SOME GUM,
AS MUCH AS YOU'D LIKE.
WHAT ARE YOU TRYING TO SAY?
♪♪
LET'S DO IT.
FANS ON!
DON'T STOP CHEWING.
Narrator: JOSH RATED HIS
CONTROL TEST DISCOMFORT
AT THE MAXIMUM NUMBER OF 5,
SO HE'S HOPING
FOR SOME IMPROVEMENT.
-HOW ARE YOU HOLDING UP?
-I'M DOING GOOD.
[ LAUGHS ]
YOU GUYS ARE EVIL.
[ BRIAN LAUGHS ]
LIKE, HALFWAY BETWEEN
CRYING AND LAUGHING.
[ LAUGHS ]
IT'S CALLED ONION MADNESS.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE AT THE HALFWAY POINT.
HOW YOU DOING?
ALL RIGHT.
-YOU BURNING?
-OH, YEAH.
Brian: OH, YEAH.
OH, YOU ARE?
♪♪
OH, WOW!
STRAIGHT TO TWITCHY EYES.
-NOT HELPING.
-[ JON LAUGHS ]
-WAS THAT "NOT HELPING"?
-NOT HELPING.
Narrator: FOR ERIC AT LEAST,
THE GUM WAS NO MIRACLE CURE.
-YOU FEEL THAT.
-Jon: YOU FEEL IT?
MY BREATH WON'T STINK, BUT I
DEFINITELY FELT MY EYES BURNING.
♪♪
Narrator: AND WITH THAT,
IT'S TIME TO CHECK THE SCORES.
ALL RIGHT. WE HAVE A 3,
A 4, A 5,
A 2, A 3 AND A 4.
THAT'S ALL OVER THE BOARD,
BUT THEY'RE STILL HIGH NUMBERS.
Narrator: IN FACT,
THE CHEWING GUM AVERAGE SCORE
ISN'T A WHOLE LOT BETTER
THAN THE CONTROL TEST.
SO THEY'RE READY FOR
TREATMENT NUMBER TWO.
THESE NEXT ONIONS,
FRESH OUT OF THE FREEZER.
Brian: NOW, HOW CAN FREEZING
AN ONION PREVENT TEARS?
WELL, WHEN YOU CUT AN ONION,
ENZYMES RELEASE
PROPANETHIAL-S-SOXIDE.
IF YOU DON'T RELEASE THAT GAS
BECAUSE IT'S FROZEN,
THERE'S NO ENZYME ACTIVITY,
NO TEARS.
Narrator:
WELL, THAT'S THE THEORY.
THERE'S PLENTY OF PEOPLE
WHO SWEAR THIS WORKS WONDERS.
YOU READY?
LET'S DO IT.
THE ONION FEELS COLD, BUT IT'S
NOT CUTTING ANY DIFFERENTLY.
IT'S STARTING TO HIT ME
A LITTLE BIT.
I THINK LAST TIME,
AROUND THIS POINT,
YOU ALREADY HAD
SOME TEARS GOING.
IT'S A SLOW BURN.
HEY, JON.
YEAH?
SHE LOOKS LIKE SHE'S
HOLDING OUT A LITTLE BETTER.
THEY'RE WATERY, BUT NO TEARS.
ULTIMATE CHOPPING CHAMPIONSHIPS,
ARE YOU READY?
♪♪
SMELL IT?
OH, NO! AH!
AH, SHE'S ALREADY
DOWN TO ONE EYE.
[ LAUGHS ]
THAT IS A LOT OF BLINKING.
YOU GUYS ARE JERKS!
FIVE, FOUR, THREE,
TWO, ONE...
Brian: FRESH AIR.
♪♪
Jon: HOW WAS THAT?
THAT WAS ACTUALLY
A LITTLE BETTER.
IT DIDN'T GET WORSE AND WORSE
AS THE TIME WENT BY.
Narrator: THE RESULTS?
WELL, THEY'RE SLIGHTLY BETTER
THAN CHEWING GUM.
3, 2.5,
3, 4,
3, AND 2.5.
Narrator: STILL, THE FROZEN
ONION REMEDY FALLS
A LONG WAY SHORT OF THE TOTAL
RELIEF THEY'RE LOOKING FOR.
ONIONS FRESH FROM THE FREEZER?
WELL, BASED ON WHAT
OUR VOLUNTEERS SHOWED US,
I DON'T THINK THAT'S THE REMEDY.
♪♪
ALL RIGHT, BRIAN,
IF ANYTHING GOES WRONG,
I'LL GIVE YOU THE HAND SIGNAL.
[ LAUGHS ]
Narrator: AN ESSENTIAL PART
OF BEING A MYTHBUSTER
IS A WILLINGNESS
TO LEARN NEW SKILLS.
OH, MY GOD! [ LAUGHS ]
Narrator:
TODAY, IT'S RAPPELLING.
AND JON REALLY HAS GOT
THE  HANG OF IT.
IT WAS DOPE.
♪♪
YOU KNOW, I THINK I DID
A PRETTY GOOD JOB,
BUT APPARENTLY INSURANCE
DOESN'T WANT ME
SWINGING THROUGH THE AIR
WHILE SHOOTING A REAL GUN.
ARE YOU SURPRISED BY THAT?
I'M MORE DISAPPOINTED,
BUT I TOTALLY UNDERSTAND.
BUT THAT'S WHY WE NEED A SYSTEM
COMPLETELY REMOTE
THAT I CAN TRIGGER WHILE
I'M SWINGING RIGHT TO THE GLASS
SO I DON'T SMASH
MY FACE INTO IT.
Narrator: IN FACT, JON'S
ALREADY HATCHED A PLAN...
SOMETHING LIKE THIS.
♪♪
...USING A SUCTION CUP FRAME...
[ CRACKLING ]
...AND A MODIFIED
PAINTBALL GUN
THAT SHOOTS MARBLES
TO SMASH THE GLASS.
THE FRAME THAT HOLDS THE GUN
STICKS RIGHT ON THE WINDOW,
SO THE MARBLE CAN BE SAFELY
FIRED FROM POINT-BLANK RANGE.
THAT'S PRETTY.
YEAH. [ LAUGHS ]
AND THAT HOLDS WELL?
YEAH, IT HOLDS -- I DIDN'T EVEN
PUT IN THE BOTTOM SUCTION CUP,
AND IT'S GOT NO PROBLEM
PULLING, RIGHT,
BECAUSE THE LEVERAGE
IS GOING THIS WAY.
-EXCELLENT.
-BUT IT'S -- LOOK AT THAT.
IT'S PRETTY STURDY.
♪♪
Narrator: AND HERE'S THE REALLY
CLEVER PART.
BRIAN'S REMOTELY RIGGED UP
A DUMMY GUN TO THE MARBLE GUN,
MEANING JON STILL GETS
TO SWING AND SHOOT.
SO THAT TRIGGER IS HOOKED
TO THIS SERVO,
WHICH IS HOOKED TO THAT TRIGGER,
WHICH MEANS THAT IF YOU PULL
THAT RIGHT NOW, THIS WILL FIRE.
-LIKE, RIGHT NOW?
-RIGHT NOW.
[ SHOOTS ]
OOH!
KEEP PULLING IT.
[ SHOOTS ]
Narrator: THE PROXY PISTOL
CONCEPT WORKS PERFECTLY.
[ SHOOTING ]
AWESOME. THIS IS GREAT.
[ LAUGHING ]
NOW TO SEE IF THEIR
GLASS-SMASHING GIZMO
IS ALL IT'S CRACKED UP TO BE.
OKAY, GLASS BREAKER TEST
WITH GLASS BALL IN THREE,
TWO, ONE.
[ SHOOTING ]
[ LAUGHING ]
THE MARBLE SHOT
THROUGH THE GLASS,
AND THEN THE RIG FELL OFF, BUT
LEFT THE GLASS PERFECTLY INTACT.
Narrator:
NOT A TOTAL SUCCESS, SINCE
THE GLASS DIDN'T FALL AWAY.
BUT BRIAN THINKS
GOING FULL-SCALE
WITH A MUCH BIGGER PANE
WILL MAKE ALL THE DIFFERENCE.
THE BIGGER THE PANE,
THE WEAKER THE GLASS,
THE HEAVIER THE PERSON,
THE LESS THE PROBLEM.
THIS WILL BE GREAT.
WELL, OUR GLASS-BREAKING
SYSTEM WORKS
BECAUSE ALL THE GLASS IS BROKEN.
BUT YOU MAY HAVE NOTICED, EVEN
THOUGH WE SHATTERED THE GLASS,
IT DIDN'T COLLAPSE.
AND THAT'S BECAUSE IT'S
IN A SMALLER SHEET
VERSUS THOSE LARGER SHEETS
WHERE IT'S JUST SO HEAVY,
IT WILL COLLAPSE
UNDER ITS OWN WEIGHT.
[ SHOOTING ]
Narrator: THEY'VE LEARNED
ALL THEY CAN
FROM THE SMALL SCALE.
I THINK HE'S WORRIED.
NOW TO SEE IF THAT TRANSLATES
EVEN REMOTELY
TO A FULL-SCALE
SWING AND SHATTER.
-Brian: GO!
-[ GRUNTS ]
♪♪
Narrator: SO FAR, SIX VOLUNTEERS
HAVE RATED THE EFFECTIVENESS
OF TWO MYTHICAL CURES
FOR STINGING ONION EYES.
FIRST, CHEWING GUM...
Jon: DO YOU THINK THE GUM
HELPED AT ALL?
NO.
Narrator: ...AND THEN
FREEZING THE ONIONS.
THEY'RE WATERY, BUT NO TEARS.
OH, WOW. THAT SEEMS LIKE
A PRETTY GOOD IMPROVEMENT.
COME ON OVER.
PLEASE TAKE A CHAIR.
THIS TEST IS SPRITZING
THE ONIONS WITH LEMON JUICE
TO SEE IF IT STOPS YOU
FROM GETTING TEARS.
OKAY.
NOW, HOW IS THAT MEANT
TO PREVENT THE BURNING
AND THE RED EYES?
WELL, LEMON JUICE CONTAINS ACID
IN THE FORM OF CITRIC ACID.
THAT'S GOING TO
NEUTRALIZE THE ENZYME
THAT MAKES THE GAS
THAT MAKES THE TEARS.
NO ENZYME, NO TEARS.
-LEMON JUICE.
-ALL RIGHT, CLOCK'S ON.
-TIMER.
-HERE WE GO.
Narrator: THEY'RE PUMPING LEMON
JUICE THROUGH A SPRINKLER HOSE
AND SPRITZING AS THEY GO.
YOU GOT THAT LEMON JUICE
ON THERE, B-RI?
OH, I'M STAYING RIGHT
UNDER THE LEMON JUICE.
SPRITZ A LITTLE LEMON JUICE,
FULL CHOP.
♪♪
SHE LOOKS PRETTY HAPPY.
-[ LAUGHS ]
-I DON'T SEE TEARS.
-Jon: YEAH.
-I LIKE LEMON.
SHE LOVES LEMON!
[ LAUGHS ]
ALL RIGHT.
[ CHOPPING ]
YEAH, I DON'T SEE ANY TEARS
OR ANY REAL PINK
HAPPENING IN THE EYES.
LOOK AT THAT.
HE'S OPENING HIS EYES WIDE.
I KNOW.
[ LAUGHS ]
[ CHOPPING CONTINUES ]
SHE'S GOING LIKE THIS.
SHE'S CHALLENGING US.
HEY, YOU DOING ALL RIGHT?
HOW'S IT GOING IN THERE?
-I'M FINE.
-THAT'S IMPRESSIVE.
AND THAT IS ALL, FOLKS.
THERE IS A...INCREDIBLE,
NOTICEABLE DIFFERENCE.
THERE'S, LIKE, NO PINK
IN YOUR EYES AT ALL.
I KNOW.
I DIDN'T EVEN SMELL ONIONS.
REALLY?
WOW!
Narrator:
WORD OF MOUTH IS GOOD,
BUT HOW DID THEY RATE THE LEMON
JUICE CURE FROM ZERO TO FIVE?
1. 1. 1.
1. 1.
ZERO.
WELL, THAT'S OUR FIRST
ZERO OF THE DAY,
AND PLUS ALL THOSE OTHER 1s,
I'D CALL THIS A REAL RESULT.
WELL, THESE NUMBERS
ARE SIGNIFICANTLY LOWER
THAN THE CONTROL,
SO I'D SAY LEMON JUICE
HAD TO HAVE AN EFFECT.
I MEAN, FREEZING ONIONS
AND CHEWING GUM, NOT SO MUCH.
BUT LEMON JUICE?
I'D HAVE TO SAY
THAT'S PLAUSIBLE.
ME, TOO.
Narrator: CHEWING GUM
AND FROZEN ONIONS ARE BUSTED.
BUT LEMON JUICE
IS DEFINITELY PLAUSIBLE,
WITH ONE OBVIOUS DRAWBACK.
I KIND OF WONDER, THOUGH, WITH
THE LEMON JUICE ON THE ONIONS,
DO THEY EVEN STILL
TASTE LIKE ONIONS?
[ INHALES ] I GUESS THERE'S
ONLY ONE WAY TO FIND OUT.
♪♪
OHH!
THAT'S NOT GOOD.
IT'S LIKE --
IT'S LIKE A CRUNCHY LEMON.
OH, MY GOD!
YEAH...
THEY JUST TASTE LIKE LEMONS.
Narrator:
ON THAT SLIGHTLY SOUR NOTE...
THE BOYS REVEAL A SUREFIRE CURE
THEY'VE SO FAR KEPT UNDER WRAPS.
♪♪
PHEW! TA-DA!
[ BRIAN LAUGHS ]
[ WHIRRING ]
Narrator: BUT IT'S
STRICTLY A LAST RESORT.
[ WHIRRING ]
LOOK! NO TEARS!
WHOA! YEAH!
I DON'T THINK
NORMAL PEOPLE
HAVE ONE OF THESE
IN THEIR KITCHEN!
WHAT?!
♪♪
WE'RE TESTING
THE HOLLYWOOD MOVIE TROPE
THAT A GOOD GUY
WITH NOWHERE ELSE TO GO
BUT OFF THE ROOF OF A BUILDING
WILL TAKE A LEAP OF FAITH
AND GRAB ON TO SOME KIND OF ROPE
OR FIRE HOSE OR SOMETHING...
[ GUNSHOT ]
...AND AS HE'S SWINGING BACK...
[ IMITATES GUNSHOTS ]
SHOOT THROUGH A WINDOW,
COME -- PSHH! --
CRASHING THROUGH IT,
AND LAND PERFECTLY SAFE BACK
INSIDE THE BUILDING.
GERONIMO!
Narrator: TO GET THIS FAR,
THEY'VE DETERMINED
AN ACTION HERO COULD SURVIVE
A TWO-STORY JUMP AND JOLT.
HERE WE GO.
GET TO THE CAR.
TO THE CAR, BUSTER.
Narrator: JON'S ALSO PRACTICED
SOME MIDAIR SHARPSHOOTING.
[ IMITATES GUNSHOTS ]
BUT FOR SAFETY, THEY'VE BUILT
THEIR OWN SUCTION CUP MARBLE GUN
TO BREAK THE GLASS.
THAT'S PRETTY SOLID.
NOW IT'S ALL UP TO JON, AND HE'S
STILL ON A STEEP LEARNING CURVE.
OH, [BLEEP]!
OH, MY GOD!
[ LAUGHS ]
WAS THAT A LITTLE BIT
OF PRAYER HALFWAY DOWN?
-NO, IT WAS ME SWEARING.
-[ BRIAN LAUGHS ]
WE NEED TO GET ALL OF THIS
SAFETY EQUIPMENT ON YOU
THAT WILL PROTECT YOU
AGAINST THE GLASS,
AND GET YOU SUED TO DOING THE
JUMP IN ALL OF THIS EQUIPMENT.
YOU SAID YOU FEEL
LIKE A SUPERHERO,
LET'S SEE IF YOU CAN
JUMP LIKE ONE.
OH, YEAH,
WE'LL SEE WHAT HAPPENS.
ASSUME THE POSITION.
Narrator: WITH JON'S WELL-BEING
THE MAIN CONCERN...
IS IT TOO LATE TO GO
TO THE BATHROOM?
YEAH.
...IT'S ALSO DECIDED THEY'LL
STICK WITH THE BELAY HARNESS
INSTEAD OF THE ROPE
FOR FINAL TESTING.
GO!
[ GRUNTING ]
THE BELAY RIG'S GOING
TO ALLOW JON
TO HAVE A MUCH SMOOTHER
ARC TO HIS JUMP
THAN HE WOULD HAVE WITH
THAT FIXED LENGTH OF ROPE.
-Brian: JON?
-WHAT?
-HE SAID YOU NEED MORE PRACTICE.
-YEAH?
HE'S GOING TO HAVE SOMEONE AT
THE END CONTROLLING THE TENSION
AND SLACK,
MAKING A NICE, BEAUTIFUL ARC.
YOU WANT TO TRY TO JUMP
INTO THE NEXT PARKING LOT.
OH, I CAN DO THAT.
YOU DON'T NEED TO JUMP
DOWN THERE, GRAVITY DOES THAT.
OH...
Brian: WITH JUST THAT FIXED
LINE, HE'D HAVE A SUDDEN JOLT,
AND THEN BOUNCE OVER, WHICH,
FOR OUR HERO, ISN'T SO BAD
BECAUSE IN THIS MYTH, HE ONLY
HAS TO MAKE THAT JUMP ONCE.
HOW WAS THAT?
-LOOKS LIKE HE'S HONING IT IN.
-YEAH.
-GO!
-Brian: BUT JON'S GOING TO
HAVE TO LEARN HOW TO DO IT
JUST RIGHT,
WHICH MEANS OVER AND OVER AGAIN.
SO TO PROTECT HIS SPINE,
WE'RE GOING TO LET HIM USE
KYLE'S BELAY RIG EVERY TIME.
Jon: I THINK THAT WAS
PRETTY STRAIGHT.
I BELIEVE JON JUST GOT
PROMOTED TO ACTION HERO.
I THINK SO.
Narrator: WITH THAT UPGRADE,
THEY UP THE DEGREE OF DIFFICULTY
TO SEE IF JON
CAN STICK A LANDING.
THAT CALLS FOR A SMALL MOUNTAIN
OF RUBBER AND CARDBOARD.
GO!
[ GRUNTS, IMITATES GUNSHOTS ]
[ GRUNTS ] I'M GOOD!
-OOH!
-HOW'D THAT FEEL, MAN?
THAT WAS AWESOME.
I THINK I'M DEFINITELY
SHOOTING THE WINDOW,
LANDING FLAT ACROSS IT,
LANDING SOFT.
IT'S GOOD TO GO, MAN.
I DON'T KNOW HOW I FEEL
ABOUT SAYING THIS,
BUT IT'S TIME
TO GIVE YOU A GUN.
[ LAUGHS ] YEAH!
Narrator: WITH THE ELEMENTS
ALL FALLING INTO PLACE,
THEY SET UP A BIG PAPER TARGET
FOR JON TO AIM AT...
[ WHIRRING ]
...THE SAME SIZE
AS A SKYSCRAPER WINDOW.
MAY SEEM KIND OF SILLY TO SCORE
PAPER BEFORE JUMPING THROUGH IT,
BUT ENDS UP WITH
TWO LAYERS OF PAPER HERE
AND THE FLEXIBILITY,
THIS COULD BE MORE DANGEROUS
THAN THAT GLASS
FOR JON TO GO THROUGH.
THESE LITTLE SCORE MARKS?
THAT MAKES IT NICE AND SAFE.
Narrator:
AND JUST TO SEE
IF THAT MIDAIR SNAP SHOT
IS FEASIBLE,
JON'S TAKING THIS JUMP
ARMED WITH A PAINTBALL GUN.
I'M FINALLY ABOUT TO DO
A 10-FOOT RUN-UP OFF THE ROOF
WITH MY FIREARM,
SWING INTO A GIANT
PAPER TARGET TO SEE
IF I CAN PUT EVERY
ONE OF THE THINGS
I LEARNED TO THE TEST.
I'M FEELING THE ADRENALINE.
YOU BETTER FIGURE OUT
THE ACCURACY HERE.
IT'S GLASS AFTER THIS.
COPY.
JON THROUGH THE PAPER
ACCURACY TEST
IN THREE, TWO,
ONE...GO.
[ GRUNTS ]
♪♪
Narrator: IN THEIR BID TO TRY
THE SKYSCRAPER SWING
MOVIE TROPE FOR REAL...
OH! OH, THAT LOOKED
LIKE THAT HURT.
♪♪
...BUSTER'S BEEN MOTHBALLED.
THE STUNTMAN DU JOUR
IS FLESH-AND-BLOOD JON LUNG.
[ LAUGHS ]
AND THIS IS HIS FINAL
TEST JUMP --
HOPEFULLY,
RIGHT THROUGH A TARGET.
JON THROUGH THE PAPER
ACCURACY TEST
IN THREE, TWO,
ONE...GO.
[ GRUNTS ]
[ SHOOTS ]
Narrator: PERFECT.
JON NOT ONLY SMASHED
THROUGH THE TARGET,
BUT GOT OFF
A FEW ROUNDS BEFOREHAND.
Brian: WELL, I DIDN'T SEE
ANY STRAY BALLS.
EVERY SINGLE ONE --
[ IMITATES SHOTS ]
HOLES STRAIGHT DOWN THE LINE,
PERFECTLY HIT.
Jon: GUN SAFE, I'M GOOD.
Brian: WE WERE LOOKING FOR
ACCURACY WITH THAT LIVE
PAINTBALL GUN, AND HIS SHOT...
[ IMITATES SHOT ]
RIGHT DOWN THE LINE
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE TARGET.
[ JON GRUNTS ]
[ GROANS ]
Narrator: IT'S CRUNCH TIME.
WHILE JON SWEATS OFF
THE POUNDS...
LOOKS TOASTY, BUDDY.
YEAH.
...THE WINDOW IS CAREFULLY
ANCHORED INTO POSITION.
[ WHIRS ]
ALL THAT REMAINS IS TO HOOK UP
THE SUCTION-ATTACHED
MARBLE SHOOTER.
BUT KYLE STILL SEES
A SAFETY SNAG.
WE HAVE JON TOO FAR OUT
WHEN HE PULLS THAT TRIGGER
AND THE TIMING'S ON HIM,
WE ACTUALLY HAVE A PRETTY GOOD
RISK OF SOME PIECES OF GLASS
BEING TOO ACTIVE
AND DROPPING AS
HE'S SWINGING THROUGH,
CREATING A KIND OF A SITUATION
WHERE HE MIGHT GET INJURED.
SO I'M GOING TO HAVE TO PULL
THE PLUG ON THAT ONE
AND PULL THE GLASS MYSELF.
Narrator: KYLE'S TIMING WILL
HAVE TO BE SPOT-ON
SO JON DOESN'T CRASH THROUGH
AN UNBROKEN WINDOW.
AND HERE'S HOW THE NEW PLAN
IS GOING DOWN.
BEHIND ME IS A LARGE
PANE OF GLASS
ATTACHED IN A SOLID WINDOW
FRAME JUST LIKE A SKYSCRAPER.
AT THE TOP OF IT IS
A PAIR OF VICE GRIPS
ATTACHED TO A ROPE
COMING DOWN TO KYLE.
KYLE'S GOING TO...
YANK THAT ROPE,
BREAKING THE GLASS
AT THE PERFECT TIME,
SO THAT JON GETS THE PERFECT
SWING THROUGH THE GLASS.
♪♪
[ LIFT WHIRRING ]
[ EXHALES SHARPLY ]
Brian: EVERYONE'S QUIET
AND FOCUSED, AND HONESTLY,
IT HAS ME PRETTY NERVOUS
FOR JON RIGHT NOW.
[ LAUGHS ] YOU READY?
BUT I THINK HE'S IN GOOD HANDS.
YEAH, LET'S DO IT.
Narrator: THEY'VE DONE
ALL THEY CAN TO ENSURE
JON'S SUCCESS
AND HIS SAFETY.
ALL OF MY TRAINING,
THE RIGGING,
THE SETUP AND EVERYTHING
THE TEAM HAS DONE SO FAR
HAS LED TO THIS ONE MOMENT.
Narrator: IT'S FAIR TO SAY THAT,
BY NOW, JON KNOWS THE ROPES.
BUT THIS TIME,
THERE'S 200 POUNDS
OF QUARTER-INCH-THICK
GLASS IN THE MIX.
LET'S DO IT BEFORE
THIS BECOMES ALL FOG.
GUYS, SO WE'RE GOING
FOR THE REAL DEAL.
EVERYTHING GOES ON "GO."
Brian: ALL RIGHT, JON.
YOU SET UP THERE?
YOU FEEL CONFIDENT?
YEAH!
JON THROUGH THE GLASS
HOLLYWOOD-STYLE IN THREE,
TWO, ONE...
GO!
[ GRUNTS ]
[ SHOOTING ]
WE'RE GOOD! WHOO!
Narrator: HE NAILED IT.
AS PER THE MYTH,
HE RAN OFF THE ROOF, SPUN,
PULLED OUT A STUNT PISTOL,
AND SWUNG SMOOTHLY THROUGH
THE FALLING GLASS.
YOU SEE THAT, SON?
I CAME SWINGING DOWN
AND I WAS LIKE,
"THAT GLASS AIN'T BROKE."
AND I WAS LIKE, "WELL."
[ IMITATES SHOTS ]
AND IT WENT "BOOM"
RIGHT AS I WAS RIGHT UP NEAR IT.
IT SHATTERED,
I WENT RIGHT THROUGH,
AND IT WAS PROBABLY
THE COOLEST THING
I HAVE EVER DONE IN MY LIFE.
THE TIMING WAS INCREDIBLE.
THANK YOU, GUYS, SO MUCH.
NO PROBLEM.
AND OBVIOUSLY EVERYONE ELSE.
BUT YEAH, THAT WAS --
THAT WAS AWESOME.
[ LAUGHS ]
HOLY MOLY.
[ GRUNTS ]
[ SHOOTING ]
[ SHATTERING ]
AH, THIS WAS A NEAT MYTH
TO TEST.
WHAT DOING YOU THINK?
WELL, LET'S BREAK IT DOWN.
EVEN THOUGH KYLE
BROKE THE GLASS,
I'M PRETTY SURE WE PROVED THAT
YOU CAN COMFORTABLY GET OFF
A FEW SHOTS MID-SWING
TO CRACK THE WINDOW.
YEAH, YOU HAD NO PROBLEM
SHOOTING THAT WINDOW SQUARE ON,
AND YOU WENT THROUGH
THE GLASS SAFELY.
YEAH, THE ONLY REAL DOUBT
IS WHETHER THE ACTUAL JOLT
FROM AN INFLEXIBLE ROPE
VERSUS OUR BELAY RIG
WOULD THROW MY RHYTHM OFF.
YEAH, BUSTER SURVIVED HIS
TWO-STORY ROPE FALL PRETTY WELL,
SO I'M TEMPTED
TO CALL IT PLAUSIBLE.
ME, TOO.
TOTALLY PLAUSIBLE.
SO, HOW DO WE GET DOWN
FROM HERE?
DO YOU HAVE ANY ROPE?
NO ROPE.
YOU GOT A PHONE?
YEAH, IT'S DOWNSTAIRS.
I SEE.
♪♪